We're now going to bring pinky online. Blinky has been running on MooseFS for a while and doing a great job, but we want copies=2
(and to be able to actually call it a cluster!!)

The plan is still to kit out one node a month. By the end of January the full lab will be up and running with all 4 nodes.

Anyway - for now... bought a new SDcard + some colour-coded cables - blinky is red, pinky is pink, inky is blue, clyde is orange.

Flashed the latest ubuntu image to the new card using etcher and installed the new 4TB WD RED in pinky, ready for it to go into service.

Still need to find some reasonably sized (0.5m) IEC-C7 cables and a LACK table to kind of make this look neat.

Okay, new board booted as odroid @ 10.1.1.160

Created a DHCP static lease for 10.1.1.202 and set hostname

Followed most of the directions in the first post

Skipped straight to XFS, with fstab options:
/dev/sda /lfsbrick xfs nodev,noatime,nodiratime,largeio,inode64 0 2

Now we need to install MooseFS from source. As before we'll use checkinstall...
sudo apt install build-essential libpcap-dev zlib1g-dev libfuse-dev pkg-config
sudo apt install automake fuse
sudo apt install checkinstall

Then grab https://github.com/moosefs/moosefs/archive/v3.0.101.tar.gz
tar xvf it
Run a linux build
then as root, checkinstall that puppy


**********************************************************************

 Done. The new package has been installed and saved to

 /home/wings/moosefs-src/moosefs-3.0.101/moosefs_3.0.101-1_armhf.deb

 You can remove it from your system anytime using: 

      dpkg -r moosefs

It'll automatically be installed. Nice!

- create mfs user, empty pw
- copy mfs stuff across
- set goal on entire FS to 2
- start chunkserver on pinky and enable it
- configure and enable metalogger on pinky

root@pinky:/mnt/mfs# systemctl start moosefs-metalogger
root@pinky:/mnt/mfs# systemctl enable moosefs-metalogger

worth installing netatalk just to get Avahi working... ping blinky.local ;)
