Yesterdays experiments went well, but ext4 with no options was a bit of a failure.

I'm going to jump straight to XFS and the recommended mount options that the LizardFS docs suggest -

"rw,noexec,nodev,noatime,nodiratime,largeio,inode64,barrier=0"

per https://docs.lizardfs.com/adminguide/basic_configuration.html

Hopefully that'll improve perf a bit, as I was only getting 6-15MB/s and the disk is capable of ~140MB/s! I'm
not greedy, even if I get 50MB/s I'll be happy, but an average of 10MB/s is just not good enough. One comfort
is that if I was using a Raspberry Pi for this purpose that would actually be decent speeds... Hmm.

To get mkfs.xfs we need to install xfs-progs.

root@blinky:/var/lib/lizardfs# apt install xfsprogs

We'll also wipe LizardFS - unmount all mounts, stop all LFS services, go to /var/lib/lizardfs, delete all
but the empty metadata file then re-copy it back to /var/lib/lizardfs/metadata.mfs

Not that I need to say it, but this will DESTROY ALL METADATA ON YOUR FS. Ahem. Anyways.
root@blinky:/var/lib/lizardfs# mkfs.xfs /dev/sda
mkfs.xfs: /dev/sda appears to contain an existing filesystem (ext4).
mkfs.xfs: Use the -f option to force overwrite.

Nice that it detected that. We then use -f to overwrite as prompted...

After some fighting, managed to get it to mount via fstab :)

Here's the line - notice that barrier=0 is missing as for some reason that wouldn't work.
/dev/sda /lfsbrick xfs nodev,noatime,nodiratime,largeio,inode64 0 2

After mounting, we must create our directory for our chunkserver again.

root@blinky:~# mkdir /lfsbrick/geckobox
root@blinky:~# chown lizardfs:lizardfs /lfsbrick/geckobox/

We turn our master back on, then our chunkserver.

Now a quick test...
1073741824 bytes (1.1 GB, 1.0 GiB) copied, 51.3116 s, 20.9 MB/s

Damn it, that's really not much better :( 

root@blinky:/etc/sysctl.d# nano 20-lizardfs.conf
add tunings from https://docs.lizardfs.com/cookbook/linux.html?highlight=network
and reboot

No different, even slightly slower.

Giving up for today. Opened an issue on the LFS GitHub.
